Redshift is a Cloud Data Warehousing Service to help companies manage big Data or
an extremely large volume of Data that needs to be
analyzed or reported against and quickly scale.
Redshift is a managed service that allows you to run
fast Queries against your data using SQL or Standard Query Language.
ETL or extract transform load tools,
and BI or Business Intelligence tools.
Redshift also automates administrative and maintenance task.
A Data Warehouse is designed for fast Query and Analysis not transaction processing,
and usually contains historical Data from transactional systems.
For example, let's say you manage
your website that allows users to order products online.
The more recent transactions,
like the orders for the current year,
may live in a Relational Database like Oracle,
because you may need to access them during day-to-day operations.
But orders from, let say 10 years ago maybe archived to a Data Warehouse like Redshift.
Redshift stores data in a column format
as opposed to a row store like a relational database.
This aids in fast query and analysis.